== oeSENC Charts

=== OpenCPN Vector Charts

OCPN Vector Charts are licensed and sourced from chart providers like
Hydrographic Offices. These - non free - charts give OCPN access to
up-to-date and proven charts for areas where those are not available for
free.

Different from S-63 or genuine S-57 charts (US), these are not
_“Official Charts”_ in the context of “_carriage requirements”_, as they
are not issued or certified by official bodies. Even if the content is
the same.

The charts are delivered in an encrypted format optimized for OpenCPN
called oeSENC and are requiring the corresponding oeSENC plug-in. They
appear like all the other vector charts in S-57 format and can be
quilted and managed identically.

In the case of charts licensed from the Australian AHS the charts are
called oeEVC due to legal reasons. The oeSENC plug-in will handle these
files same as the oeSENCs.

Same as in the case of the S-63 plug-in, the operational part is managed
by an outside entity, o-charts.org. The charts are available at its web
shop.

=== Links

Source: https://github.com/bdbcat/oesenc_pi[Github source] +
Download: https://opencpn.org/OpenCPN/plugins/oesenc.html[oeSenc_pi
Download] +
Website: https://o-charts.org/[o-charts Vector Charts for Opencpn] +
Forum:
http://www.cruisersforum.com/forums/f134/up-to-date-vector-charts-for-opencpn-oesenc-181733.html[oeSenc
CF Thread]

=== Windows / Mac / Linux

_- requires to be online! For offline install of oeSENC charts see
further below.._

*1.* Download and install the
https://opencpn.org/OpenCPN/plugins/oesenc.html[oeSENC plugin] (only for
OpenCPN 4.6 version and above). If you have already the oeSENC plugin
installed, update to the latest version.

For the online procedure described here version 2.0 or later of the
plug-in is required.

*2.* Go to OpenCPN, _Options → Plugins → oeSENC_ and enable it.

*3.* Go to http://o-charts.org/shop[o-charts shop] and license the chart
sets you are interested in. Remember your access data to o-charts shop
(email and password), you will need them later.

*4.* Go to OpenCPN, _Options → Charts → oeSENC charts_ tab and press
_Refresh Chart List_.

*5.* Login with your o-charts shop access data.

*6.* If you have previously requested charts, you will get a list of
System Names. Select the System Name that corresponds to your computer.

If not, you have to provide a new System Name to identify your system. 3
characters minimum and 15 maximum. Only lowercase letters and numbers
allowed. No symbols or spaces.

*7.* Follow on screen instructions to assign and download on your
computer the charts sets you licensed on the o-charts shop.

Note: for the linux version you need libusb-0.1-4 for the SG lock
library (“*sudo apt install libusb-0.1-4*”). The system itself will use
most likely some libusb-1.0, which is a different library.

=== Android

*1.* Install OpenCPN 1.0.13, or above, for Android 4.2, or above, from
the
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.opencpn.opencpn[Play
Store].

*2.* Install oeSENC plugin for OpenCPN from the
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.opencpn.oesencplugin[Play
Store] to be sure your device is compatible.

*3.* Go to http://o-charts.org/shop[o-charts shop] and license the chart
sets you are interested in.

*4.* Back to OpenCPN, _Options → Charts → oeSENC charts → Add/update
oeSENC chart sets_ and login with your o-charts access data.

*5.* Follow on screen instructions to assign and download on your device
the charts sets you licensed on the o-charts shop.

=== Updates

You should visit _Options → Charts → oeSENC charts_ from time to time to
see if a new update is available. DE, FR and NO chart sets are updated
weekly. UK, BE, NL, IS, HR and ES chart sets are updated quarterly.

*Offline Installation of oeSENC charts*

For target systems without connection to Internet you will create the
System Identifier file at the target system, take it to a site with
Internet access and request and download the chart set for the target
system. Copy the received file onto some portable device and copy it
onto the target system.

The steps in detail:

Install the plug-in, enable it at *Options | plug-ins* and create your
system identifier file from “*Preferences*” The plug-in will report the
path to the file. For Windows and macOS systems a copy is created
directly on the desktop.

 
image::createsystemidentifierfile.png[]

==== At the shop at

*_http://o-charts.org/index.html[http://o-charts.org]_*
- Select the chart set you want to license.

. Upload your SystemIdentifierFile - it is used to encode the charts for
a specific system - and finish the purchase.
. You will receive an e-mail with the download path and your license
key.
. Depending on the workload of the production system this can take some
time.

==== Download the packet

. Unzip it to a directory of your choice.
. Add an entry to the source chart directories pointing to the directory
of the chart set.
. Apply.

The downloaded set contains a text file with information about the set,
the license key, the EULA and the chart “blob” itself.

image::oesenc-add-oesenc-dir.png[]

==== Each Use

Each time you will use the charts from the set, a pop-up will inform you
about the licensing period of the charts and you will have to accept the
terms of use. These are requirements from our licensors.

image::pop-up.png[]]

One additional license for back-up purposes is included and can be
generating by the user when required.

==== Chart Examples

 
image::screenshot_large.png[] 

image::screenshot_medium.png[]
 
image::screenshot_small.png[]

image::oesenc-chart-example.png[]

image::oesenc-chart-example-2.png[]

image::oesenc-chart-example-3.png[]

=== Windows / Mac / Linux

_- requires to be online! For offline install of oeSENC charts see
further below.._

*1.* Download and install the
https://opencpn.org/OpenCPN/plugins/oesenc.html[oeSENC plugin] (only for
OpenCPN 4.6 version and above). If you have already the oeSENC plugin
installed, update to the latest version.

For the online procedure described here version 2.0 or later of the
plug-in is required.

*2.* Go to OpenCPN, _Options → Plugins → oeSENC_ and enable it.

*3.* Go to http://o-charts.org/shop[o-charts shop] and license the chart
sets you are interested in. Remember your access data to o-charts shop
(email and password), you will need them later.

*4.* Go to OpenCPN, _Options → Charts → oeSENC charts_ tab and press
_Refresh Chart List_.

*5.* Login with your o-charts shop access data.

*6.* If you have previously requested charts, you will get a list of
System Names. Select the System Name that corresponds to your computer.

If not, you have to provide a new System Name to identify your system. 3
characters minimum and 15 maximum. Only lowercase letters and numbers
allowed. No symbols or spaces.

*7.* Follow on screen instructions to assign and download on your
computer the charts sets you licensed on the o-charts shop.

Note: for the linux version you need libusb-0.1-4 for the SG lock
library (“sudo apt install libusb-0.1-4”). The system itself will use
most likely some libusb-1.0, which is a different library.

=== Android

*1.* Install OpenCPN 1.0.13, or above, for Android 4.2, or above, from
the
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.opencpn.opencpn[Play
Store].

*2.* Install oeSENC plugin for OpenCPN from the
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.opencpn.oesencplugin[Play
Store] to be sure your device is compatible.

*3.* Go to http://o-charts.org/shop[o-charts shop] and license the chart
sets you are interested in.

*4.* Back to OpenCPN, _Options → Charts → oeSENC charts → Add/update
oeSENC chart sets_ and login with your o-charts access data.

*5.* Follow on screen instructions to assign and download on your device
the charts sets you licensed on the o-charts shop.

=== Updates

You should visit _Options → Charts → oeSENC charts_ from time to time to
see if a new update is available. DE, FR and NO chart sets are updated
weekly. UK, BE, NL, IS, HR and ES chart sets are updated quarterly.

*Offline Installation of oeSENC charts*

For target systems without connection to Internet you will create the
System Identifier file at the target system, take it to a site with
Internet access and request and download the chart set for the target
system. Copy the received file onto some portable device and copy it
onto the target system.

The steps in detail:

Install the plug-in, enable it at *Options | plug-ins* and create your
system identifier file from “*Preferences*” The plug-in will report the
path to the file. For Windows and macOS systems a copy is created
directly on the desktop.

 
image::createsystemidentifierfile.png[image::createsystemidentifierfile.png[Create
System Identifier,title="Create System Identifier",width=600]]

==== At the shop at

 
*_http://o-charts.org/index.html[http://o-charts.org]_*
 

. Select the chart set you want to license.
. Upload your SystemIdentifierFile - it is used to encode the charts for
a specific system - and finish the purchase.
. You will receive an e-mail with the download path and your license
key.
. Depending on the workload of the production system this can take some
time.

==== Download the packet

. Unzip it to a directory of your choice.
. Add an entry to the source chart directories pointing to the directory
of the chart set.
. Apply.

The downloaded set contains a text file with information about the set,
the license key, the EULA and the chart “blob” itself. 

image::oesenc-add-oesenc-dir.png[]

==== Each Use

Each time you will use the charts from the set, a pop-up will inform you
about the licensing period of the charts and you will have to accept the
terms of use. These are requirements from our licensors. +

image::pop-up.png[]
 
One additional license for back-up purposes is included and can be
generating by the user when required. 

==== Chart Examples

image::screenshot_large.png[]

image::screenshot_medium.png[]

image::screenshot_small.png[]

image::oesenc-chart-example.png[]

image::oesenc-chart-example-2.png[]

image::oesenc-chart-example-3.png[]
